h1. "How To Contribute Patches":http://textpattern.com/faq/276/how-to-contribute-patches

You can fetch the latest development source of Textpattern with "Subversion":http://textpattern.com/faq/275/subversion (SVN). There are "various SVN clients":http://google.com/search?q=svn+client available, for multiple platforms. Tutorials for a couple popular choices can be found in "Textpattern Documentation":http://textpattern.net/wiki/index.php?title=Designer_and_Developer_Interests.

What follows is a quick style guide, to be followed when modifying Textpattern source files to make patches for submission.

h2. Patch Style Guide

# Use UNIX (LF) line feeds/endings rather than Windows (CR+LF) or Mac (CR) ^[1]^
# Use &quot;Real&quot; or actual tabs, rather than spaces ^[1]^
# When naming your patch file, make the name descriptive, and include the current revision number. e.g. fix_category_bug_r1375.patch
# Create "a new issue":http://code.google.com/p/textpattern/issues/entry?template=User%20enhancement%20request. Describe what your patch is for. Attach it, if possible, to your issue. If you're unable to do so, upload it somewhere where it can be downloaded, and include a full url to the file. ^2^

h3. Notes

[1] Every decent text editor should allow you to change your line feed and tab settings, as well as what you want your defaults for these two settings to be.
[2] Patches can also be sent in to the public "developers' mailing list":http://lists.textpattern.com/mailman/listinfo/txp-dev.

<hr />

h1. "Widows and no_widow":http://textpattern.com/faq/306/widows-and-no_widow

QUESTION: Why does Textpattern insert a non-breaking space (@#160;@) between the last two words of my article titles?

"sIFR":http://wiki.novemberborn.net/sifr won't work properly on my article titles.

ANSWER:

h2. Background

For those who don't know, in typesetting, a widow is a single word on a line by itself at the end of a paragraph and is considered bad style.

The solution is to insert a non-breaking space between the last two words of your headline.

ShaunInman.com: "Widon't":http://www.shauninman.com/archive/2006/08/22/widont_wordpress_plugin

h2. Widow handling in Textpattern

Textpattern includes such a feature in the core to deal with widows. There is a preference, &quot;Prevent widowed words in article titles?&quot; and several tags, such as @recent_articles@, make use of this preference as the default value for the attribute, @no_widow@.

<hr />

h1. "Why do my articles load slowly?":http://textpattern.com/faq/305/why-do-my-articles-load-slowly

QUESTION: When I have comments enabled, my *individual article pages* load more slowly than the rest of my site.

ANSWER: Go to:

Preferences &gt; Advanced &gt; Publish &gt; Spam blacklists (comma-separated)

and remove <code>sbl.spamhaus.org</code> if it is there.

If this does not resolve the problem, read up on "Diagnosing Performance Problems":http://textpattern.com/faq/136/diagnosing-performance-problems.

This FAQ does *not* apply to:

* Sluggish admin-side performance
* Slow rendering of *article list pages*
* Delays during a comment preview or comment post

<hr />

h1. "Troubleshooting Feed Issues":http://textpattern.com/faq/280/troubleshooting-feed-issues

h2. The Basics

* Use "the feed validator":http://feedvalidator.org/ if you suspect a feed problem. If the feed validator indicates that your feed is invalid, then please post its messages *verbatim* in your support request. Also, the URL you submit to the feed validator is your *feed URL*, not your *homepage URL*&#8212;the feed validator does not auto-detect feeds.
* Post your Diagnostics results.
* Post a feed URL. If there's a specific feed which is malfunctioning, post its URL if at all possible.  If you're having problems on an intranet server, can you replicate the problem on a public server? It will help those who are troubleshooting to be able to see what's really going on.

h2. The feed validator reports I have a missing @description@ element.

Make sure there's something entered in the &quot;Site slogan&quot; field in your Preferences.

h2. My feeds are empty or don't contain the right articles.

Check the &quot;Syndicate?&quot; option, found on the &quot;Sections&quot; tab.  Sections that have the &quot;Syndicate?&quot; option turned off *will not* show up in your feeds.

h2. Safari RSS does not appear to output a single useful error message.

If Safari RSS is having problems with your feed, try the feed in another feed reader first, then try "the feed validator":http://feedvalidator.org/. Most often, the feed is invalid, but Safari's error message doesn't leave any clue as to the nature of the problem with the feed. Also, Safari will automatically change the scheme from 'http' to 'feed'. That's fine, within Safari, but remember that everywhere else your feed URLs still need to begin with 'http'.

h2. My browser tries to download the feed when I click the feed's link.

Depending upon your browser, this is the correct behaviour. More likely than not, your browser is not capable of displaying XML. As the feeds are sent with the *correct* MIME type, your browser offers to download the file, rather than just displaying the raw content.This is the correct behavior, and your feed should work in a proper feed aggregator.

h2. How can I setup feed autodetection?

If you want feed aggregators and other tools to be able to autodetect your feeds, you'll need to add tags like the following to the @<head>@ of your main page:

bc.. <txp:feed_link format="link" flavor="rss" />
<txp:feed_link format="link" flavor="atom" />

<hr />

h3. "Reporting Security Issues":http://textpattern.com/faq/278/reporting-security-issues

See "security":http://textpattern.com/security.